## Script for getting and cleaning data

run_analysis.R is the script for loading and cleaning human activity recognition data. It does the following:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Writes tidy data set to the "tidy.txt" file in the current directory.

## Features

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

-tBodyAcc-XYZ
-tGravityAcc-XYZ
-tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
-tBodyGyro-XYZ
-tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
-tBodyAccMag
-tGravityAccMag
-tBodyAccJerkMag
-tBodyGyroMag
-tBodyGyroJerkMag
-fBodyAcc-XYZ
-fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
-fBodyGyro-XYZ
-fBodyAccMag
-fBodyAccJerkMag
-fBodyGyroMag
-fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

-mean(): Mean value
-std(): Standard deviation

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

-gravityMean
-tBodyAccMean
-tBodyAccJerkMean
-tBodyGyroMean
-tBodyGyroJerkMean

List of all features in the data set generated by the run_analysis.R:

1. tBodyAcc-mean()-X
2. tBodyAcc-mean()-Y
3. tBodyAcc-mean()-Z
4. tBodyAcc-std()-X
5. tBodyAcc-std()-Y
6. tBodyAcc-std()-Z
7. tGravityAcc-mean()-X
8. tGravityAcc-mean()-Y
9. tGravityAcc-mean()-Z
10. tGravityAcc-std()-X
11. tGravityAcc-std()-Y
12. tGravityAcc-std()-Z
13. tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X
14. tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y
15. tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z
16. tBodyAccJerk-std()-X
17. tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y
18. tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z
19. tBodyGyro-mean()-X
20. tBodyGyro-mean()-Y
21. tBodyGyro-mean()-Z
22. tBodyGyro-std()-X
23. tBodyGyro-std()-Y
24. tBodyGyro-std()-Z
24. tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X
25. tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y
26. tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z
27. tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X
28. tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y
29. tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z
30. tBodyAccMag-mean()
31. tBodyAccMag-std()
32. tGravityAccMag-mean()
33. tGravityAccMag-std()
34. tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()
35. tBodyAccJerkMag-std()
36. tBodyGyroMag-mean()
37. tBodyGyroMag-std()
38. tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
39. tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()
40. fBodyAcc-mean()-X
41. fBodyAcc-mean()-Y
42. fBodyAcc-mean()-Z
43. fBodyAcc-std()-X
44. fBodyAcc-std()-Y
45. fBodyAcc-std()-Z
46. fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X
47. fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y
48. fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z
49. fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X
50. fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y
51. fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z
52. fBodyAccJerk-std()-X
53. fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y
54. fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z
55. fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X
56. fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y
57. fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z
58. fBodyGyro-mean()-X
59. fBodyGyro-mean()-Y
60. fBodyGyro-mean()-Z
61. fBodyGyro-std()-X
62. fBodyGyro-std()-Y
63. fBodyGyro-std()-Z
64. fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X
65. fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y
66. fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z
67. fBodyAccMag-mean()
68. fBodyAccMag-std()
69. fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()
70. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()
71. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()
72. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()
73. fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()
74. fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()
75. fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()
76. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()
77. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()
78. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()
79. Activity